# 1. The Hero Editor [DONE]

## Create the heroes component

    ng generate component heroes

The CLI creates a new folder, src/app/heroes/, and generates the four files of the HeroesComponent.

You always import the Component symbol from the Angular core library and annotate the component class with [@Component](https://angular.io/api/core/Component).

@Component is a decorator function that specifies the Angular metadata for the component.

The CLI generated three metadata properties:

- selector— the component's CSS element selector
- templateUrl— the location of the component's template file.
- styleUrls— the location of the component's private CSS styles.

The [CSS element selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Type_selectors), 'app-heroes', matches the name of the HTML element that identifies this component within a parent component's template.

The `ngOnInit` is a [lifecycle hook](https://angular.io/guide/lifecycle-hooks#oninit). Angular calls `ngOnInit` shortly after creating a component. It's a good place to put initialization logic.

Always `export` the component class so you can import it elsewhere ... like in the `AppModule`.

### Add a _hero_ property

Add a _hero_ property to the `HeroesComponent` for a hero named "Windstorm."

    hero = 'Windstorm';

### Show the hero

    {{hero}}

## Show the _HeroesComponent_ view

To display the `HeroesComponent`, you must add it to the template of the shell `AppComponent`.

    <h1>{{title}}</h1>
    <app-heroes></app-heroes>

## Create a Hero class

    export class Hero {
      id: number;
      name: string;
    }

Return to the `HeroesComponent` class and import the `Hero` class.

Refactor the component's `hero` property to be of type `Hero`. Initialize it with an `id` of `1` and the name `Windstorm`.

## Show the hero object

Update the binding in the template to announce the hero's name and show both `id` and `name` in a details layout.

## Format with the _UppercasePipe_

    <h2>{{hero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>

The word uppercase in the interpolation binding, right after the pipe operator ( | ), activates the built-in UppercasePipe.

Pipes are a good way to format strings, currency amounts, dates and other display data. Angular ships with several built-in pipes and you can create your own.

## Edit the hero

Users should be able to edit the hero name in an `<input>` textbox.

The textbox should both _display_ the hero's `name` property and _update_ that property as the user types. That means data flow from the component class _out to the screen_ and from the screen _back to the class_.

To automate that data flow, setup a two-way data binding between the `<input>` form element and the `hero.name` property.

### Two-way binding

**`[(ngModel)]`** is Angular's two-way data binding syntax.

Here it binds the `hero.name` property to the HTML textbox so that data can flow _in both directions_: from the `hero.name` property to the textbox, and from the textbox back to the `hero.name`.

### The missing _FormsModule_

Notice that the app stopped working when you added `[(ngModel)]`.

Although `ngModel` is a valid Angular directive, it isn't available by default.

It belongs to the optional `FormsModule` and you must _opt-in_ to using it.

## _AppModule_

Angular needs to know how the pieces of your application fit together and what other files and libraries the app requires. This information is called _metadata_

Some of the metadata is in the @Component decorators that you added to your component classes. Other critical metadata is in `@NgModule` decorators.

The most important `@NgModule` decorator annotates the top-level *AppModule* class.

### Import _FormsModule_

app.module.ts (FormsModule symbol import)
___
    import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';

app.module.ts ( @NgModule imports)
___
    imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    FormsModule
],

### Declare _HeroesComponent_

Every component must be declared in _exactly_ one `NgModule`.

## Summary

- You used the CLI to create a second `HeroesComponent`.
- You displayed the `HeroesComponent` by adding it to the `AppComponent` shell.
- You applied the `UppercasePipe` to format the name.
- You used two-way data binding with the `ngModel` directive.
- You learned about the `AppModule`.
- You imported the `FormsModule` in the `AppModule` so that Angular would recognize and apply the `ngModel` directive.
- You learned the importance of declaring components in the AppModule and appreciated that the CLI declared it for you.
