# 2. Displaying a List [DONE]

## Create mock heroes
src/app/mock-heroes.ts
___
    import { Hero } from './hero';

    export const HEROES: Hero[] = [
      { id: 11, name: 'Mr. Nice' },
      { id: 12, name: 'Narco' },
      { id: 13, name: 'Bombasto' },
      { id: 14, name: 'Celeritas' },
      { id: 15, name: 'Magneta' },
      { id: 16, name: 'RubberMan' },
      { id: 17, name: 'Dynama' },
      { id: 18, name: 'Dr IQ' },
      { id: 19, name: 'Magma' },
      { id: 20, name: 'Tornado' }
    ];

## Displaying heroes

    import { HEROES } from '../mock-heroes';

In the same file (HeroesComponent class), define a component property called heroes to expose HEROES array for binding.

    export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {

      heroes = HEROES;

### List heroes with _*ngFor_

Open the HeroesComponent template file and make the following changes:

- Add an `<h2>` at the top,
- Below it add an HTML unordered list (`<ul>`)
- Insert an `<li>` within the `<ul>` that displays properties of a `hero`.
- Sprinkle some CSS classes for styling (you'll add the CSS styles shortly).

The `*ngFor` is Angular's _repeater_ directive. It repeats the host element for each element in a list.

In this example

- `<li>` is the host element
- heroes is the list from the `HeroesComponent` class.
- hero holds the current hero object for each iteration through the list.

> Don't forget the asterisk (*) in front of ngFor. It's a critical part of the syntax.

### Style the heroes

You could add more styles to `styles.css` and keep growing that stylesheet as you add components.

You may prefer instead to define private styles for a specific component and keep everything a component needs— the code, the HTML, and the CSS —together in one place.

This approach makes it easier to re-use the component somewhere else and deliver the component's intended appearance even if the global styles are different.

You define private styles either inline in the `@Component.styles` array or as stylesheet file(s) identified in the `@Component.styleUrls` array.

> Styles and stylesheets identified in `@Component` metadata are scoped to that specific component. The `heroes.component.css` styles apply only to the `HeroesComponent` and don't affect the outer HTML or the HTML in any other component.

## Master/Detail

###  Add a click event binding

heroes.component.html (template excerpt)
___
    <li *ngFor="let hero of heroes" (click)="onSelect(hero)">

This is an example of Angular's event binding syntax.

The parentheses around `click` tell Angular to listen for the `<li>` element's click event. When the user clicks in the `<li>`, Angular executes the `onSelect(hero)` expression.

`onSelect()` is a `HeroesComponent` method that you're about to write. Angular calls it with the `hero` object displayed in the clicked `<li>`, the same `hero` defined previously in the `*ngFor` expression.

### Add the click event handler

Rename the component's `hero` property to `selectedHero` but don't assign it. There is no _selected hero_ when the application starts.

src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts (onSelect)
___
    selectedHero: Hero;
    onSelect(hero: Hero): void {
      this.selectedHero = hero;
    }

### Update the details template

    HeroesComponent.html:3 ERROR TypeError: Cannot read property 'name' of undefined

### What happened?

When the app starts, the `selectedHero` is `undefined` _by design_.

Binding expressions in the template that refer to properties of `selectedHero` — expressions like `{{selectedHero.name}}` — _must fail_ because there is no selected hero.

### The fix - hide empty details with `*ngIf`

The component should only display the selected hero details if the `selectedHero` exists.

Wrap the hero detail HTML in a `<div>`. Add Angular's `*ngIf` directive to the `<div>` and set it to `selectedHero`.

### Why it works

When `selectedHero` is `undefined`, the `ngIf` removes the hero detail from the DOM. There are no `selectedHero` bindings to worry about.

When the user picks a hero, `selectedHero` has a value and `ngIf` puts the hero detail into the DOM.

### Style the selected hero

It's difficult to identify the selected hero in the list when all `<li>` elements look alike.

That selected hero coloring is the work of the `.selected` CSS class in the styles you added earlier. You just have to apply the `.selected` class to the `<li>` when the user clicks it.

heroes.component.html (toggle the 'selected' CSS class)
___
    [class.selected]="hero === selectedHero"

The Angular class binding makes it easy to add and remove a CSS class conditionally. Just add `[class.some-css-class]="some-condition"` to the element you want to style.

## Summary

- The Tour of Heroes app displays a list of heroes in a Master/Detail view.
- The user can select a hero and see that hero's details.
- You used `*ngFor` to display a list.
- You used `*ngIf` to conditionally include or exclude a block of HTML.
- You can toggle a CSS style class with a `class` binding.
