# 3. Master/Detail Components [DONE]

Keeping all features in one component as the application grows will not be maintainable. You'll want to split up large components into smaller sub-components, each focused on a specific task or workflow.

In this page, you'll take the first step in that direction by moving the hero details into a separate, reusable `HeroDetailComponent`.

The `HeroesComponent` will only present the list of heroes. The `HeroDetailComponent` will present details of a selected hero.

## Make the `HeroDetailComponent`

    ng generate component hero-detail

The command scaffolds the following:

- Creates a directory src/app/hero-detail.

Inside that directory four files are generated:

- A CSS file for the component styles.
- An HTML file for the component template.
- A TypeScript file with a component class named `HeroDetailComponent`.
- A test file for the `HeroDetailComponent` class.

The command also adds the `HeroDetailComponent` as a declaration in the `@NgModule` decorator of the `src/app/app.module.ts` file.

### Write the template

### Add the `@Input()` hero property

The `HeroDetailComponent` template binds to the component's `hero` property which is of type `Hero`.

The `hero` property must be an `Input` property, annotated with the `@Input()` decorator, because the external `HeroesComponent` will bind to it like this.

```html
    <app-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></app-hero-detail>
```

src/app/hero-detail/hero-detail.component.ts (import Input)
___

```typescript
@Input() hero: Hero;
```

That's the only change you should make to the `HeroDetailComponent` class. There are no more properties. There's no presentation logic. This component simply receives a hero object through its `hero` property and displays it.

### Show the `HeroDetailComponent`

The HeroesComponent is still a master/detail view.

It used to display the hero details on its own, before you cut that portion of the template. Now it will delegate to the `HeroDetailComponent`.

The two components will have a parent/child relationship. The parent `HeroesComponent` will control the child `HeroDetailComponent` by sending it a new hero to display whenever the user selects a hero from the list.

### Update the `HeroesComponent` template

```html
<app-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></app-hero-detail>
```

`[hero]="selectedHero"` is an Angular property binding.

It's a _one way_ data binding from the `selectedHero` property of the `HeroesComponent` to the `hero` property of the target element, which maps to the `hero` property of the `HeroDetailComponent`.

## What changed?

As before, whenever a user clicks on a hero name, the hero detail appears below the hero list. Now the `HeroDetailComponent` is presenting those details instead of the `HeroesComponent`.

Refactoring the original `HeroesComponent` into two components yields benefits, both now and in the future:

1. You simplified the HeroesComponent by reducing its responsibilities.
2. You can evolve the HeroDetailComponent into a rich hero editor without touching the parent HeroesComponent.
3. You can evolve the HeroesComponent without touching the hero detail view.
4. You can re-use the HeroDetailComponent in the template of some future component.

## Summary

- You created a separate, reusable `HeroDetailComponent`.
- You used a property binding to give the parent `HeroesComponent` control over the child `HeroDetailComponent`.
- You used the `@Input()` decorator to make the `hero` property available for binding by the external `HeroesComponent`.
