# 4. Services [DONE]

## Why services

Components shouldn't fetch or save data directly and they certainly shouldn't knowingly present fake data. They should focus on presenting data and delegate data access to a service.

In this tutorial, you'll create a `HeroService` that all application classes can use to get heroes. Instead of creating that service with new, you'll rely on Angular _dependency injection_ to inject it into the `HeroesComponent` constructor.

Services are a great way to share information among classes that _don't know each other_. You'll create a `MessageService` and inject it in two places:

1. in `HeroService` which uses the service to send a message.
2. in `MessagesComponent` which displays that message.

## Create the _HeroService_

    ng generate service hero

### _@Injectable()_ services

Notice that the new service imports the Angular `Injectable` symbol and annotates the class with the `@Injectable()` decorator. This marks the class as one that participates in the _dependency injection system_. The `HeroService` class is going to provide an injectable service, and it can also have its own injected dependencies.

The `@Injectable()` decorator accepts a metadata object for the service, the same way the `@Component()` decorator did for your component classes.

### Get hero data

The `HeroService` could get hero data from anywhere—a web service, local storage, or a mock data source.

Removing data access from components means you can change your mind about the implementation anytime, without touching any components. They don't know how the service works.

The implementation in _this_ tutorial will continue to deliver _mock heroes_.

## Provide the `HeroService`

You must make the `HeroService` available to the dependency injection system before Angular can _inject_ it into the `HeroesComponent`, as you will do below. You do this by registering a _provider_. A provider is something that can create or deliver a service; in this case, it instantiates the `HeroService` class to provide the service.

Now, you need to make sure that the `HeroService` is registered as the provider of this service. You are registering it with an _injector_, which is the object that is responsible for choosing and injecting the provider where it is required.

By default, the Angular CLI command `ng generate service` registers a provider with the _root injector_ for your service by including provider metadata in the `@Injectable` decorator.

```typescript
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
```

When you provide the service at the root level, Angular creates a single, shared instance of `HeroService` and injects into any class that asks for it. Registering the provider in the `@Injectable` metadata also allows Angular to optimize an app by removing the service if it turns out not to be used after all.

## Update `HeroesComponent`

```typescript
import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';
```

### Inject the `HeroService`

```typescript
constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }
```

The parameter simultaneously defines a private `heroService` property and identifies it as a `HeroService` injection site.

When Angular creates a `HeroesComponent`, the Dependency Injection system sets the `heroService` parameter to the singleton instance of `HeroService`.

### Add `getHeroes()`

```typescript
  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
  }
```

### Call it in `ngOnInit`

While you could call `getHeroes()` in the constructor, that's not the best practice.

Reserve the constructor for simple initialization such as wiring constructor parameters to properties. The constructor shouldn't `do anything`. It certainly shouldn't call a function that makes HTTP requests to a remote server as a _real_ data service would.

Instead, call `getHeroes()` inside the _ngOnInit lifecycle hook_ and let Angular call `ngOnInit` at an appropriate time _after_ constructing a `HeroesComponent` instance.

```typescript
ngOnInit() {
  this.getHeroes();
}
```

## Observable data

The `HeroService.getHeroes()` method has a _synchronous signature_, which implies that the `HeroService` can fetch heroes synchronously. The `HeroesComponent` consumes the `getHeroes()` result as if heroes could be fetched synchronously.

```typescript
this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
```

This will not work in a real app. You're getting away with it now because the service currently returns `mock heroes`. But soon the app will fetch heroes from a remote server, which is an inherently _asynchronous_ operation.

The `HeroService` must wait for the server to respond, `getHeroes()` cannot return immediately with hero data, and the browser will not block while the service waits.

`HeroService.getHeroes()` must have an _asynchronous signature_ of some kind.

It can take a callback. It could return a `Promise`. It could return an `Observable`.

### Observable _HeroService_

`Observable` is one of the key classes in the RxJS library.

```typescript
getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
  return of(HEROES);
}
```

`of(HEROES)` returns an `Observable<Hero[]>` that emits _a single value_, the array of mock heroes.

### Subscribe in _HeroComponent_

The `HeroService.getHeroes` method used to return a `Hero[]`. Now it returns an `Observable<Hero[]>`.

`Observable.subscribe()` is the critical difference.

The previous version assigns an array of heroes to the component's `heroes` property. The assignment occurs _synchronously_, as if the server could return heroes instantly or the browser could freeze the UI while it waited for the server's response.

That _won't work_ when the `HeroService` is actually making requests of a remote server.

The new version waits for the `Observable` to emit the array of heroes— which could happen now or several minutes from now. Then `subscribe` passes the emitted array to the callback, which sets the component's `heroes` property.

This asynchronous approach _will work_ when the `HeroService` requests heroes from the server.

## Show messages

### Create _MessageComponent_

    ng generate component messages

### Create the _MessageService_

    ng generate service message

### Inject it into the `HeroService`

Modify the constructor with a parameter that declares a private `messageService` property. Angular will inject the singleton `MessageService` into that property when it creates the `HeroService`.

```typescript
constructor(private messageService: MessageService) { }
```

This is a typical "service-in-service" scenario: you inject the `MessageService` into the `HeroService` which is injected into the `HeroesComponent`.

### Send a message from `HeroService`

```typescript
getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
  // TODO: send the message _after_ fetching the heroes
  this.messageService.add('HeroService: fetched heroes');
  return of(HEROES);
}
```

### Display the message from `HeroService`

The `MessagesComponent` should display all messages, including the message sent by the `HeroService` when it fetches heroes.

```typescript
constructor(public messageService: MessageService) {}
```

The `messageService` property **must** be public because you're about to bind to it in the template.

Angular only binds to _public_ component properties.

## Bind to _MessageService_

This template binds directly to the component's `messageService`.

- The `*ngIf` only displays the messages area if there are messages to show.
- An `*ngFor` presents the list of messages in repeated `<div>` elements.
- An Angular event binding binds the button's click event to `MessageService.clear()`.

## Summary

- You refactored data access to the `HeroService` class.
- You registered the `HeroService` as the _provider_ of its service at the root level so that it can be injected anywhere in the app.
- You used Angular Dependency Injection to inject it into a component.
- You gave the `HeroService` _get data_ method an asynchronous signature.
- You discovered `Observable` and the RxJS `Observable` library.
- You used RxJS `of()` to return an observable of mock heroes (`Observable<Hero[]>`).
- The component's `ngOnInit` lifecycle hook calls the `HeroService` method, not the constructor.
- You created a `MessageService` for loosely-coupled communication between classes.
- The `HeroService` injected into a component is created with another injected service, `MessageService`.
