# 5. Routing [DONE]

There are new requirements for the Tour of Heroes app:

- Add a Dashboard view.
- Add the ability to navigate between the Heroes and Dashboard views.
- When users click a hero name in either view, navigate to a detail view of the selected hero.
- When users click a deep link in an email, open the detail view for a particular hero.

## Add the `AppRoutingModule`

In Angular, the best practice is to load and configure the router in a separate, top-level module that is dedicated to routing and imported by the root `AppModule`.

By convention, the module class name is `AppRoutingModule` and it belongs in the `app-routing.module.ts` in the `src/app` folder.

    ng generate module app-routing --flat --module=app

> `--flat` puts the file in `src/app` instead of its own folder.
>
> `--module=app` tells the CLI to register it in the imports array of the AppModule.

You generally don't declare components in a routing module so you can delete the `@NgModule.declarations` array and delete `CommonModule` references too.

You'll configure the router with `Routes` in the `RouterModule` so import those two symbols from the `@angular/router` library.

Add an `@NgModule.exports` array with `RouterModule` in it. Exporting `RouterModule` makes router directives available for use in the AppModule components that will need them.

## Add routes

_Routes_ tell the router which view to display when a user clicks a link or pastes a URL into the browser address bar.

A typical Angular `Route` has two properties:

1. `path`: a string that matches the URL in the browser address bar.
2. `component`: the component that the router should create when navigating to this route.

## RouterModule.forRoot()

You first must initialize the router and start it listening for browser location changes.

```typescript
imports: [ RouterModule.forRoot(routes) ],
```

> The method is called `forRoot()` because you configure the router at the application's root level. The `forRoot()` method supplies the service providers and directives needed for routing, and performs the initial navigation based on the current browser URL.

## Add _RouterOutlet_

The `<router-outlet>` tells the router where to display routed views.

> The `RouterOutlet` is one of the router directives that became available to the `AppComponent` because `AppModule` imports `AppRoutingModule` which exported `RouterModule`.

Append `/heroes` to the URL in the browser address bar. You should see the familiar heroes master/detail view.

## Add a navigation link (`routerLink`)

Users shouldn't have to paste a route URL into the address bar. They should be able to click a link to navigate.

Add a `<nav>` element and, within that, an anchor element that, when clicked, triggers navigation to the `HeroesComponent`.

A `routerLink` attribute is set to "/heroes", the string that the router matches to the route to `HeroesComponent`. The `routerLink` is the selector for the `RouterLink` directive that turns user clicks into router navigations. It's another of the public directives in the `RouterModule`.

## Add a dashboard view

    ng generate component dashboard

The _template_ presents a grid of hero name links.

- The `*ngFor` repeater creates as many links as are in the component's `heroes` array.
- The links are styled as colored blocks by the `dashboard.component.css`.
- The links don't go anywhere yet but they will shortly.

The `class` is similar to the `HeroesComponent` class.

- It defines a `heroes` array property.
- The constructor expects Angular to inject the `HeroService` into a private `heroService` property.
- The `ngOnInit()` lifecycle hook calls `getHeroes`.

This `getHeroes` returns the sliced list of heroes at positions 1 and 5, returning only four of the Top Heroes (2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th).

## Add the dasboard route

```typescript
{ path: 'dashboard', component: DashboardComponent },
```

## Add a default route

When the app starts, the browsers address bar points to the web site's root. That doesn't match any existing route so the router doesn't navigate anywhere. The space below the `<router-outlet>` is blank.

To make the app navigate to the dashboard automatically, add the following route to the `AppRoutingModule.Routes` array.

This route redirects a URL that fully matches the empty path to the route whose path is `'/dashboard'`.

## Add dashboard link to the shell

## Navigating to hero details

The `HeroDetailsComponent` displays details of a selected hero. At the moment the `HeroDetailsComponent` is only visible at the bottom of the `HeroesComponent`

The user should be able to get to these details in three ways.

- By clicking a hero in the dashboard.
- By clicking a hero in the heroes list.
- By pasting a "deep link" URL into the browser address bar that identifies the hero to display.

### Delete _hero details_ from `HeroesComponent`

When the user clicks a hero item in the `HeroesComponent`, the app should navigate to the `HeroDetailComponent`, replacing the heroes list view with the hero detail view. The heroes list view should no longer show hero details as it does now.

### Add a _hero detail_ route

A URL like `~/detail/11` would be a good URL for navigating to the Hero Detail view of the hero whose id is 11.

Add a _parameterized_ route to the `AppRoutingModule.routes` array that matches the path pattern to the _hero detail_ view.

```typescript
{ path: 'detail/:id', component: HeroDetailComponent },
```

The colon (:) in the `path` indicates that `:id` is a placeholder for a specific hero `id`.

### `DashboardComponent` hero links

You're using Angular interpolation binding within the `*ngFor` repeater to insert the current iteration's `hero.id` into each `routerLink`.

### `HeroesComponent` hero links

### Remove dead code (optional)

## Routable _HeroDetailComponent_

The `HeroDetailComponent` needs a new way to obtain the hero-to-display.

- Get the route that created it,
- Extract the id from the route
- Acquire the hero with that id from the server via the `HeroService`

The `ActivatedRoute` holds information about the route to this instance of the `HeroDetailComponent`. This component is interested in the route's bag of parameters extracted from the URL. The "id" parameter is the id of the hero to display.

The `HeroService` gets hero data from the remote server and this component will use it to get the _hero-to-display_.

The location is an Angular service for interacting with the browser. You'll use it later to navigate back to the view that navigated here.

### Extract the _id_ route parameter

The `route.snapshot` is a static image of the route information shortly after the component was created.

The `paramMap` is a dictionary of route parameter values extracted from the URL. The "id" key returns the `id` of the hero to fetch.

Route parameters are always strings. The JavaScript (+) operator converts the string to a number, which is what a hero `id` should be.

### Add `HeroService.getHero()`

> Note the backticks ( \` ) that define a JavaScript _template literal_ for embedding the `id`.

Like `getHeroes()`, `getHero()` has an asynchronous signature. It returns a _mock hero_ as an `Observable`, using the RxJS `of()` function.

### Find the way back

By clicking the browser's back button, you can go back to the hero list or dashboard view, depending upon which sent you to the detail view.

It would be nice to have a button on the `HeroDetail` view that can do that.

## Summary

- You added the Angular router to navigate among different components.
- You turned the `AppComponent` into a navigation shell with `<a>` links and a `<router-outlet>`.
- You configured the router in an `AppRoutingModule`
- You defined simple routes, a redirect route, and a parameterized route.
- You used the `routerLink` directive in anchor elements.
- You refactored a tightly-coupled master/detail view into a routed detail view.
- You used router link parameters to navigate to the detail view of a user-selected hero.
- You shared the `HeroService` among multiple components.
