# 6. HTTP

In this tutorial, you'll add the following data persistence features with help from Angular's HttpClient.

- The `HeroService` gets hero data with HTTP requests.
- Users can add, edit, and delete heroes and save these changes over HTTP.
- Users can search for heroes by name.

## Enable HTTP services

`HttpClient` is Angular's mechanism for communicating with a remote server over HTTP.

To make `HttpClient` available everywhere in the app:

- open the root `AppModule`
- import the `HttpClientModule` symbol from `@angular/common/http`

## Simulate a data server

This tutorial sample _mimics_ communication with a remote data server by using the _In-memory Web API_ module.

After installing the module, the app will make requests to and receive responses from the `HttpClient` without knowing that the _In-memory Web API_ is intercepting those requests, applying them to an in-memory data store, and returning simulated responses.

This facility is a great convenience for the tutorial. You won't have to set up a server to learn about `HttpClient`.

    npm install angular-in-memory-web-api --save

This file replaces `mock-heroes.ts`, which is now safe to delete.

## Heroes and HTTP

### Get heroes with _HttpClient_

The current `HeroService.getHeroes()` uses the RxJS `of()` function to return an array of mock heroes as an `Observable<Hero[]>`.

Convert that method to use `HttpClient`

### Http methods return one value

All `HttpClient` methods return an RxJS `Observable` of something.

HTTP is a request/response protocol. You make a request, it returns a single response.

In general, an observable _can_ return multiple values over time. An observable from `HttpClient` always emits a single value and then completes, never to emit again.

This particular `HttpClient.get` call returns an `Observable<Hero[]>`, literally "_an observable of hero arrays_". In practice, it will only return a single hero array.

### _HttpClient.get_ returns response data

`HttpClient.get` returns the _body_ of the response as an untyped JSON object by default. Applying the optional type specifier, `<Hero[]>` , gives you a typed result object.

The shape of the JSON data is determined by the server's data API. The _Tour of Heroes_ data API returns the hero data as an array.

>Other APIs may bury the data that you want within an object. You might have to dig that data out by processing the `Observable` result with the RxJS `map` operator.
>
> Although not discussed here, there's an example of `map` in the `getHeroNo404()` method included in the sample source code.

### Error handling

Things go wrong, especially when you're getting data from a remote server. The `HeroService.getHeroes()` method should catch errors and do something appropriate.

To catch errors, you **"pipe" the observable** result from `http.get()` through an RxJS `catchError()` operator.

Import the `catchError` symbol from `rxjs/operators`, along with some other operators you'll need later.

The `catchError()` operator intercepts an `Observable` **that failed**. It passes the error an _error handler_ that can do what it wants with the error.

### handleError

The following `handleError()` will be shared by many `HeroService` methods so it's generalized to meet their different needs.

Instead of handling the error directly, it returns an _error handler_ function to `catchError` that it has configured with both the name of the operation that failed and a safe return value.

After reporting the error to console, the handler constructs a user friendly message and returns a safe value to the app so it can keep working.

Because each service method returns a different kind of `Observable` result, `handleError()` takes a type parameter so it can return the safe value as the type that the app expects.

### Tap into the _Observable_

The `HeroService` methods will **tap** into the flow of observable values and send a message (via `log()`) to the message area at the bottom of the page.

They'll do that with the RxJS `tap` operator, which _looks_ at the observable values, does _something_ with those values, and passes them along. The `tap` call back doesn't touch the values themselves.

### Get hero by id

There are three significant differences from getHeroes().

- it constructs a request URL with the desired hero's id.
- the server should respond with a single hero rather than an array of heroes.
- therefore, `getHero` returns an `Observable<Hero>` ("_an observable of Hero objects_") rather than an observable of hero _arrays_ .

## Update heroes

### Add _HeroService.updateService()_

The overall structure of the `updateHero()` method is similar to that of `getHeroes()`, but it uses `http.put()` to persist the changed hero on the server.

The `HttpClient.put()` method takes three parameters

- the URL
- the data to update (the modified hero in this case)
- options

The URL is unchanged. The heroes web API knows which hero to update by looking at the hero's `id`.

The heroes web API expects a special header in HTTP save requests. That header is in the `httpOptions` constant defined in the `HeroService`.

## Add a new hero

When the given name is non-blank, the handler creates a `Hero`-like object from the name (it's only missing the `id`) and passes it to the services `addHero()` method.

When `addHero` saves successfully, the `subscribe` callback receives the new hero and pushes it into to the `heroes` list for display.

### Add _HeroService.addHero()_

`HeroService.addHero()` differs from `updateHero` in two ways.

- it calls `HttpClient.post()` instead of `put()`.
- it expects the server to generate an `id` for the new hero, which it returns in the `Observable<Hero>` to the caller.

## Delete a hero

Although the component delegates hero deletion to the `HeroService`, it remains responsible for updating its own list of heroes. The component's `delete()` method immediately removes the _hero-to-delete_ from that list, anticipating that the `HeroService` will succeed on the server.

There's really nothing for the component to do with the `Observable` returned by `heroService.delete()`. **It must subscribe anyway**.

>If you neglect to `subscribe()`, the service will not send the delete request to the server! As a rule, an `Observable` _does nothing_ until something subscribes!
>
>Confirm this for yourself by temporarily removing the `subscribe()`, clicking "Dashboard", then clicking "Heroes". You'll see the full list of heroes again.

Note that

- it calls `HttpClient.delete`.
- the URL is the heroes resource URL plus the `id` of the hero to delete
- you don't send data as you did with `put` and `post`.
- you still send the `httpOptions`.

## Search by name

Learn to chain `Observable` operators together so you can minimize the number of similar HTTP requests and consume network bandwidth economically.

### _HeroService.searchHeroes_

The method returns immediately with an empty array if there is no search term. The rest of it closely resembles `getHeroes()`. The only significant difference is the URL, which includes a query string with the search term.

### Add search to the Dashboard

This template looks a lot like the `*ngFor` repeater in the `HeroesComponent` template.

Unfortunately, adding this element breaks the app. Angular can't find a component with a selector that matches `<app-hero-search>`.

### Create _HeroSearchComponent_

As the user types in the search box, an _input_ event binding calls the component's `search()` method with the new search box value.

### _AsyncPipe_

```html
<li *ngFor="let hero of heroes$ | async" >
```

The `$` is a convention that indicates `heroes$` is an `Observable`, not an array.

The `*ngFor` can't do anything with an `Observable`. But there's also a pipe character (`|`) followed by `async`, which identifies Angular's `AsyncPipe`.

The `AsyncPipe` subscribes to an `Observable` automatically so you won't have to do so in the component class.

### Fix the `HeroSearchComponent` class

```typescript
heroes$: Observable<Hero[]>;
```

### The _searchTerms_ RxJs subject

A `Subject` is both a source of _observable_ values and an `Observable` itself. You can subscribe to a `Subject` as you would any `Observable`.

You can also push values into that `Observable` by calling its `next(value)` method as the `search()` method does.

The `search()` method is called via an _event binding_ to the textbox's `input` event.

```html
<input #searchBox id="search-box" (input)="search(searchBox.value)" />
```

Every time the user types in the textbox, the binding calls `search()` with the textbox value, a "search term". The `searchTerms` becomes an `Observable` emitting a steady stream of search terms.

### Chaining RxJS operators

Passing a new search term directly to the `searchHeroes()` after every user keystroke would create an excessive amount of HTTP requests, taxing server resources and burning through the cellular network data plan.

Instead, the `ngOnInit()` method pipes the `searchTerms` observable through a sequence of RxJS operators that reduce the number of calls to the `searchHeroes()`, ultimately returning an observable of timely hero search results (each a `Hero[]`).

- `debounceTime(300)` waits until the flow of new string events pauses for 300 milliseconds before passing along the latest string. You'll never make requests more frequently than 300ms.
- `distinctUntilChanged()` ensures that a request is sent only if the filter text changed.
- `switchMap()` calls the search service for each search term that makes it through debounce and `distinctUntilChanged`. It cancels and discards previous search observables, returning only the latest search service observable.

>With the `switchMap` operator, every qualifying key event can trigger an `HttpClient.get()` method call. Even with a 300ms pause between requests, you could have multiple HTTP requests in flight and they may not return in the order sent.
>
>`switchMap()` preserves the original request order while returning only the observable from the most recent HTTP method call. Results from prior calls are canceled and discarded.
>
>Note that canceling a previous `searchHeroes()` `Observable` doesn't actually abort a pending HTTP request. Unwanted results are simply discarded before they reach your application code.

Remember that the component `class` does not subscribe to the `heroes$` _observable_. That's the job of the `AsyncPipe` in the template.

## Summary

You're at the end of your journey, and you've accomplished a lot.

- You added the necessary dependencies to use HTTP in the app.
- You refactored `HeroService` to load heroes from a web API.
- You extended `HeroService` to support `post()`, `put()`, and `delete()` methods.
- You updated the components to allow adding, editing, and deleting of heroes.
- You configured an in-memory web API.
- You learned how to use observables.
